INTRODUCTION
WHAT YOU WILL DISCOVER IN THIS BOOK &
HOW TO GET THE MOST OUT OF READING IT
This book was written to help you find everything you've been
searching for and the answers to all the questions you've had your
entire life. I understand this is a very bold statement, but you will
shortly see why I have complete confidence in saying this.
What I know to be the truth from the depths of my soul is that you
will not be the same person as you were after you read this book.
The only constant is change. Growth is an inevitable process of life,
and it will be impossible for you not to change after reading this
book.
“We cannot change what we are not aware of, and once we are
aware, we cannot help but change.” - Sheryl Sanberg
No matter who you are, where you're from, what your background
is, what you've done and haven't done, what status or wealth you do
or don't have, Martian or not, you can find total peace, unconditional
love, complete fulfillment, and an abundance of joy in your life. I
promise that you are not the exception, even though it may seem like
it. Love knows no boundaries. An open mind and a willing heart are
all you need to receive every answer you've been looking for.
And yes, there are extremely practical implications and
byproducts of understanding what is inside of this book, which many
of my coaching clients have experienced, such as: a 2-5x increase in
income, exponential growth in their businesses, deeper and more
harmonious relationships, overcoming lifelong addictions, the
spontaneous disappearance of destructive habits, an increase in
health, vitality, and overall energy. Miracles like these occur every
day for many who understand the principles within this book. And
this is just the tip of the iceberg. If I were to just list some of the
improvements and results people have gotten from this
understanding, more than half of this book would just be stories of
such miracles that happen daily.

I am reluctant to mention any of these "external" results because
it is not the point of this book. These physical manifestations are the
byproduct of this inside-out understanding of how our experiences of
life work. In actuality, we only want these external results like money
and significance because we want to experience certain feelings
inside such as love, joy, peace, and fulfillment. The feeling is really
what we want in our lives, not the physical things, but the trap is that
we believe the physical things will give us those feelings. The secret
lies within the feeling.
This book will help guide you to understand how to uncover the
truth you already know inside and discover these feelings you've
been looking for your entire life.
Now let's get into the guide of how to go through this book.
Don’t read this book for information, read it for insight. Insight (or
wisdom) can only be found within. That is why it is called insight (inside). To find everything you're looking for in life, you must look
inside yourself and discover the wisdom that already exists within
you. All the answers lie deep within your soul. This book is merely a
guide to help you look in the right place. I truly admire anyone who
still has the hope that what they're looking for is still out there. This
means you have hope. Without hope, we have nothing, so the fact
that you're here, reading this now, is a testament to your faith,
courage, and strength. I know with one hundred percent certainty
that you will find what you're looking for if you continue down the
path you're on with the hope you have in your heart.
I want to make it clear that this book is not the only book that
contains truth. The truth lies within everyone and in everything. You
must look beyond the form (the physical) to see and experience the
truth (the spiritual). The words in this book are not truth. They point
TO the truth. Look beyond words to see the truth for yourself. Truth
cannot be intellectualized; it can only be experienced. The truth lies
within a feeling, which is why it cannot be formulated into a word.
If you want to find truth, look beyond the words, and look for a
feeling.

Many who discover the truth will describe the feeling as one of
complete peace, unconditional love, and an overwhelming amount of
joy. People also describe it as the most familiar unfamiliar feeling. It
feels like you're finally home. Look for that feeling, and everything
will be revealed to you. In this book, I will not say anything that you
don't already know deep inside your soul. This is why it will be a
familiar unfamiliar feeling when you experience the truth.
Don’t try to use your intellect to figure it out — you won’t. As soon
as you intellectualize it, you've missed it. The truth does not come
from memorizing a sentence or two. A child can do that, but they will
not understand the truth. The truth comes in the form of a feeling.
From that feeling will come the wisdom and truth you’re looking for,
which will set you free. That's what we're all ultimately seeking, isn't
it?
What I will unveil to you in this book will seem simple. It will seem
almost too simple, and your brain (ego) will try to fight it or attempt to
make it more complex. It will think that it can’t be this simple. When
that time comes, I want you to remember that the truth is always
simple. What is complex can always be broken down into its smaller
counterparts. The truth cannot be broken down into smaller
constituents, which is what makes it truth. This is why truth is always
simple. If you want to find the truth, look for simplicity.
Approach this book with an open mind and a heart of pure
intention to know the truth and you'll receive everything you've been
searching for.
Before we move on, I want to take a moment to express my
deepest gratitude for you being here and sharing your time and
attention with me. Those are some of the most valuable life forces
you could give to another, so thank you for that gift to me, which you
are also giving to yourself. Never forget your own divinity because it
is only through our divinity that we have our humanity.
With Love & Light,
Joseph

CHAPTER 1
THE JOURNEY TO FINDING THE ROOT CAUSE
OF SUFFERING
"People have a hard time letting go of their suffering. Out of a fear of
the unknown, they prefer suffering that is familiar.” ― Thich Nhat
Hanh
There is an important distinction to make when speaking about
suffering. When I mention suffering in this book, I'm referring to
psychological and emotional suffering. There is a way in which, no
matter what happens in your life, you do not have to suffer
emotionally and psychologically.
I am not saying that what we go through is all in our heads or
made up. Terrible and unfortunate events happen to people every
single day. What I'm saying is that although we experience a lot of
pain in our lives, suffering is optional. In other words, pain is
unavoidable, but how we react to the events and circumstances that
happen in our lives is up to us, and that will dictate whether we suffer
or not.
Buddhists say that anytime we experience a negative event in our
lives, two arrows fly our way. Being physically struck by an arrow is
painful. Being struck by a second emotional arrow is even more
painful (suffering).
The Buddha explained, “In life, we can’t always control the first
arrow. However, the second arrow is our reaction to the first. The
second arrow is optional.”
When I first heard of this quote from Buddha a few years back, I
was confounded because although I understood what he meant, I
didn't know how I could apply this in my own life. If anyone were
given the clear choice of suffering and not suffering, I don't think
anyone in their right mind would choose to suffer.
How can I just choose not to suffer? If it were as easy as that I
don't think anyone would be suffering anymore. It wasn't until years

later that I came across a new understanding of where suffering
comes from that I was able to stop it at its source.
As I began my journey of self-improvement, I came across a
myriad of different teachings, studies, and methods to help people
overcome their problems. I read dozens, if not hundreds of books,
studied psychology, went to therapists, listened to many different
thought leaders, tried changing my habits, waking up at 4am,
changing my diet, becoming more structured and disciplined,
shadow work, studying personality types, meditating daily, going on
spiritual retreats, following spiritual masters, and researching
different ancient religions.
If you name it, I've probably tried it. I was desperate to find an
answer because I wanted to know how to stop suffering in my own
life as well as help others do the same. Although some of these
things did help me improve incrementally, it didn’t stop my suffering. I
still always felt extremely anxious, fearful, unfulfilled, irritated, angry,
frustrated, and heavy every day. Even after doing all of that, I still
didn't discover the answer and, if I'm being honest, I was even more
lost than before I started on this quest.
I felt purposeless, hopeless, and directionless. I didn't know what
to do anymore, where to look, or who to talk to. It wasn't until I was in
my darkest hour that a glimmer of hope began to lead me to the
light.
All of the sudden, after years and years of searching, I stumbled
upon one of my first mentors that taught me how to become a coach
and he revealed to me the answer of how I can alleviate my own
suffering.
The answer I discovered was in the understanding of how our
minds work and how the human experience is created.

CHAPTER 2
THE ROOT CAUSE OF ALL SUFFERING
“One who looks around him is intelligent, one who looks within him is
wise.” ― Matshona Dhliwayo
We live in a world of thought, not reality. Sydney Banks once said,
“Thought is not reality; yet it is through thought that our realities are
created.” Each of us lives through our own perceptions of the world,
which are vastly different from the person right next to us. An
example of this is that you could be sitting in a coffee shop having a
quarter-life existential crisis, completely stressed out of your mind
about how you have no idea what you’re doing with your life when it
seems like everyone else has theirs together, while the person next
to you is happily enjoying their freshly brewed drink while peacefully
people watching. You both are in the same exact coffee shop,
smelling the same aroma, surrounded by the same strangers, but
how the world looks to both of you couldn't be more different. Many
of us go through the exact same events or are in the same location
at the same time yet are having completely different experiences of
the world.
Here's another example of how we live in a world of thought and
not reality. If you walk up to 100 different people and ask each of
them what money means to them, how many different answers do
you think you'll get? Close to 100 different answers!
Money is technically the same thing, but it means something
different to each person. Money could mean time, freedom,
opportunity, security, peace of mind, or it could mean evil, greed, and
the reason why people commit crimes. For now, I'm not going to get
into which one is right or wrong (hint: there is no right or wrong
answer, but that's for a different chapter).
Another illustration of this concept is as follows: If you survey 100
different people and ask each of them what they think of our current
president, how many different answers do you think you'll get?

Even though it is the same exact person we're talking about, we
will get 100 different answers because most people live in their own
thoughts and perceptions of the world. The meaning (or thinking) we
give an event is what determines how we ultimately feel about it.
That meaning or thinking is the filter through which we see life from
then on — because of this, we live through a perception of reality,
not in reality itself. Reality is that the event happened, with no
meaning, thinking, or interpretation of it.
Any meaning or thinking we give the event is on us and that is
how our perception of reality is created. This is how our experience
of life is created from the inside out.
It's not about the events that happen in our lives, but our
interpretation of them, which causes us to feel good or bad about
something. This is how people in third world countries can be
happier than people in first world countries and people in first world
countries can be more miserable than people in third world
countries.
Our feelings do not come from external events, but from our
own thinking about the events. Therefore, we can only ever feel
what we are thinking.
Let's hypothetically say that you really hate your job, and it causes
you an enormous amount of stress, anxiety, and frustration. It pains
you to even set foot in the building where you work and just thinking
about your job makes you furious. When you're thinking about your
job, you're just sitting there on a sofa with your family watching a TV
show together, but you are fuming at the thought of your job.
Everyone else is having a good time, except you.
In this moment, everyone else in your family is having a different
experience of life than you, even though the same event is
happening. Just the thought of work created a whole different
perception of reality, even though you're not physically at work.
If it were true that external events cause us to feel the way we feel
inside, then you should be a happy camper in your living room,
watching a funny TV show with your family every single time you do
this activity — but that's not the case.

Now, you may be saying that you're only feeling this way because
an external event, your job, is causing you to feel stressed and
anxious. To that I'll ask the question, is it absolutely true that every
single person feels the exact same way about the job they're working
in?
Two different people can be doing the exact same job but will
have completely different experiences of that job. It can be the most
amazing experience and a dream job for one person but be another
person's worst nightmare and living hell. The only difference
between one person and the other is how they think about their job,
which determines how they ultimately feel about it.
Now let's go back to the original scenario of you hypothetically
hating your job. Remember how much stress, anxiety, and frustration
it causes you when you think about it?
Let's do a quick thought experiment about that by answering the
question below:
Who would you be without that thought that you hated your
job?
Take 1 minute to see what comes up for you and don't move on
until you do that.
If you don't overthink it and truly let the answers surface from
within you, without that thought, you will most likely feel and be
happy, peaceful, free, and light.
Without our usual thinking about a particular event or thing, our
experience of it completely alters. This is how we live in a world of
thought, not reality, and how our perception of reality is created from
the inside out, through our own thinking. With this new
understanding, you've just uncovered the cause of all our human
psychological suffering...
The root cause of our suffering is our own thinking.
Now before you throw this book across the room and light it on
fire, I'm not saying that this is all in our heads and that it isn't real.
Our perception of reality is very real. We will feel what we think, and
our feelings are real. That is completely undeniable. However, our
thinking will look like an inevitable, unchangeable reality to us until

we begin seeing how our reality is created. If we know that we can
only ever feel what we are thinking, then we know that we can
change our feelings by changing our thinking. Thus, we can change
our experience of life by knowing that it comes from our own
thinking. And if that is true, then we are ever only one thought away
from experiencing something different and transforming our entire
lives at any moment — through a state of no thought.
In short, the moment we stop thinking is when our happiness
begins.
A Young Monk & the Empty Boat (A Zen Story About How
Thinking is the Cause of Our Own Suffering)
A long time ago, a young Zen monk was living in a small
monastery that was located in a forest which was near a small lake.
The monastery was occupied by a few senior monks while the rest
were newcomers and still had much to learn. The monks had many
obligations in the monastery, but one of the most important ones was
their daily routine where they had to sit down, close their eyes, and
meditate in silence for hours at a time.
After each meditation, they had to report their progress to their
mentor. The young monk had difficulty staying focused during his
meditation practice for a variety of reasons, which made him very
mad. After the young monk reported his progress, or better said, lack
of it, to his mentor, the elder monk asked the young monk a simple
question that had a hidden lesson, “Do you know what is really
making you angry?” The young monk replied, “Well, usually as soon
as I close my eyes and begin to meditate, there is someone moving
around, and I can’t focus. I get agitated that someone is disturbing
me even though they know that I’m meditating. How can they not be
more considerate? And then when I close my eyes again and try to
focus, a cat or a small animal might brush past and disturb me again.
By this point, even when the wind blows and the tree branches make
noise, I get angry. If that is not enough, the birds keep on chirping,
and I can’t seem to find any peace in this place.”

The elder monk simply pointed out to his pupil, “I see that you
become angrier with each interruption you encounter. This is exactly
the opposite of what is the point of your task when meditating. You
should find a way not to get angry with people, or animals, or any
other thing around you that disturbs you during your task.” After their
consultation, the young monk went out of the monastery and looked
around to find a place that would be quieter so that he could
meditate peacefully. He found such a place at the shore of the lake
that is nearby. He brought his mat, sat down, and started meditating.
But soon a flock of birds splashed down in the lake near where the
monk was meditating. Hearing their noise, the monk opened his
eyes to see what was going on.
Although the bank of the lake was quieter than the monastery,
there were still things that would disturb his peace and he again got
angry. Even though he didn’t find the peace he was looking for, he
kept returning to the lake. Then one day, the monk saw a boat tied at
the end of a small pier. And right then an idea hit him, “Why don’t I
take the boat, row it down to the middle of the lake and meditate
there? In the middle of the lake, there will be nothing to disturb me!”
He rowed the boat to the middle of the lake and started meditating.
As he had expected, there was nothing in the middle of the lake to
disturb him and he was able to meditate the whole day. At the end of
the day, he returned to the monastery. This continued for a couple of
days and the monk was thrilled that he had finally found a place to
meditate in peace. He hadn’t felt angry and could continue the
meditation practice in a calm manner.
On the third day, the monk sat in the boat, rowed to the middle of
the lake, and started meditating again. A few minutes later, he heard
some splashing of water and felt that the boat was rocking. He
started getting upset that even in the middle of the lake there was
someone or something disturbing him.
When he opened his eyes, he saw a boat heading straight
towards him. He shouted, “Steer your boat away, or else you will hit
my boat.” But the other boat kept coming straight at him and was just
a few feet away. He yelled again but nothing changed and so the

incoming boat hit the monk’s boat. Now he was furious. He
screamed, “Who are you, and why have you hit my boat in the
middle of this vast lake?” There was no answer. This made the
young monk even angrier.
He stood up to see who was in the other boat and to his surprise,
he found that there was no one in the boat.
The boat had probably drifted along in the breeze and had
bumped into the monk’s boat. The monk found his anger dissipating.
It was just an empty boat! There was no one to get angry at!
At that moment he remembered his mentors’ question, “Do you
know what is really making you angry?” And then wondered, “It’s not
other people, situations, or circumstances. It’s not the empty boat,
but my reaction to it that causes my anger. All the people or
situations that make me upset and angry are just like the empty boat.
They don’t have the power to make me angry without my own
reaction.”
The monk then rowed the boat back to the shore. He returned to
the monastery and started meditating along with the other monks.
There were still noises and disturbances around, but the monk
treated them as the “empty boat” and continued to meditate
peacefully. When the elder monk saw the difference, he simply said
to the young monk, “I see that you have found what is really making
you angry and overcome that.”

CHAPTER 3
WHY DO WE EVEN THINK?
“I think and think and think, I've thought myself out of happiness one
million times, but never once into it.” — Jonathan Safran Foer
We as humans have evolved to develop a sophisticated ability to
rationalize, analyze, and think because it simply helped us survive.
Our minds do an incredible job to keep us alive, but it does not help
us thrive. It is concerned solely with our safety and survival, but not
our fulfillment or joy.
The mind’s job is to alert us of potential dangers in our
environment that may threaten our lives. It does its job so well that
not only will it scan our immediate surroundings for threats, but it will
even reference our backlog of past experiences to create
hypothetical scenarios and predict what it thinks could be future
potential dangers based on our memories.
None of this is wrong by any means. The mind is simply doing
what it was designed to do. When we don’t understand that its only
duty is to help us survive, then we will get angry and frustrated with
it. All conflict is derived from an innocent misunderstanding. Our
mind’s duty is to keep us alive. Our consciousness’s duty is to help
us feel fulfilled. Your soul is the reason why you’re even on this
journey in the first place — to find peace, love, and joy for yourself.
Your mind has done an amazing job at what it was made to do,
but now you may relieve it of its job because we no longer live in the
wild where death could be right around the corner in a bush. If we
keep using our minds, we will constantly stay in a state of fight or
flight, anxiety, fear, frustration, depression, anger, resentment, and
all negative emotions because the mind thinks everything is a threat
to our very existence. If you want to be free, happy, peaceful, and full
of love, then you will need to let go of listening only to your mind and
go beyond it by tuning into something much greater that will help you
not just to survive, but to thrive.

CHAPTER 4
THOUGHTS VS. THINKING
“Stop thinking and end your problems.” ― Lao Tzu
Thoughts are the energetic, mental raw materials from which we use
to create everything in the world. We can’t experience anything
without thought. It’s important to know that thoughts are a noun and
aren’t something that we do, but something we have. A thought
takes no effort or force on our end, and it is something that just
happens. We also cannot control what thoughts pop into our minds.
The source of thoughts comes from something that is beyond our
minds — the Universe, if you will.
Thinking, on the other hand, is the act of thinking about our
thoughts. This takes a significant amount of energy, effort, and
willpower (which is a finite resource). Thinking is actively engaging
with the thoughts in your mind. You don’t have to engage with each
thought in your mind, but when you do, that is thinking.
Thinking is the root cause of all our psychological suffering.
Now you might be wondering, where do positive thoughts fit into
the picture? Positive thoughts, or thoughts that feel good, are not a
result of thinking. They are, instead, generated by our natural state
of peace, love, and joy. They are a byproduct of a state of being, not
a state of thinking. We will go into depth about this in the next
chapter.
For now, let’s do a quick thought experiment.
I’ll ask you a question and all you need to do is to be aware of
what you’re experiencing, and we’ll review what happened after.
What is the dream amount of money you want to be making a
year?
Pause here and wait for an answer to surface.
Give yourself about 30-60 seconds to think about your answer of
how much money you want to be making in a year.

Don’t move on to the next step until you’ve had a decently sized
train of thought about how much you want to make.
Now take that amount and multiply that by 5.
What do you think about this new dream goal for your income
when we multiplied it by 5?
Take at least another 30-60 seconds to become aware of how
you’re feeling when you think about that and see what other thinking
comes up for you as you feel your emotions.
Don’t move on until you’ve done the above.
Okay, let’s bring it back in and review what happened.
After I asked the first question of what is the dream amount of
money you want to be making per year, within a few seconds an
answer popped up in your mind. That is a thought. Notice how
quickly and effortlessly that came to you.
After an answer popped into your mind, I asked you to think about
your answer. What happened once I asked you to think about your
answer?
If you’re like most people, you probably went on a wild
rollercoaster once you began thinking about the thought.
You might have been thinking how there’s no way you can make
that much, no one in your family is making that much money, you
don’t know how to make that much, it’s stupid to want that much
money or that it makes you greedy.
Notice how you felt when you were thinking about those thoughts.
Most likely it didn’t feel that great, but that is okay, and I’ll show
you what you can do about it soon.
This is a prime example of thoughts versus thinking.
If I ask you a question, you will 100% have a thought that pops
into your mind.
Thoughts are not inherently bad. Remember that they are the
energetic mental raw materials from which we create in the world.
The moment we think about our thoughts is when we begin to get
taken on an emotional rollercoaster. When we think about our
thoughts, we begin to judge and criticize the thoughts and
experience all sorts of internal emotional turmoil.

When I asked you how much you wanted to make, you had a
thought about the amount. That thought was neutral and didn’t cause
any emotional toil. In fact, you might have felt expansive and excited.
It was only when you began thinking about that thought of how much
you wanted to make which is what caused the self-doubt,
unworthiness, anxiety, anger, guilt, or any other emotion you may
have experienced.
This is what I mean by thinking is the root of all of our suffering.
Having the initial thought of how much you wanted to make didn’t
cause any suffering until you began thinking about the thought of
how much you wanted to make.
It is not necessary to think about our thoughts or to judge them. It
does us no good to do so. We may think that thinking is helping us,
but all it’s really doing is causing us to feel all of these negative,
unwanted emotions and making us create reasons as to why we
can’t do it or why we shouldn’t want it.
The only thing that was useful and helpful was the initial thought
that popped into your mind when I first asked how much you wanted
to make. All of the thinking that happened after was destructive and
unhelpful.
Thoughts create. Thinking destroys.
The reason thinking destroys is because as soon as we begin to
think about the thoughts, we cast our own limiting beliefs,
judgements, criticisms, programming, and conditioning onto the
thought, thinking of infinite reasons as to why we can’t do it and why
we can’t have it.
Without thinking, we prevent all negative programming and
judgements from tarnishing the initial thought of what you want to
create.
If I asked you what are some ways you could make the amount of
money you want, if you sat there long enough, you’ll experience the
same phenomenon of having random thoughts pop into your head of
ways you could make it happen.
These are thoughts of creation. Thoughts are inherently infinite,
expansive, and energetically positive. You’ll know you are having

thoughts from the divine when you feel positive emotions, feel lighter,
and alive.
As soon as you begin thinking about those thoughts of the ways
you can make the money you want, you’ll immediately feel heavy,
restricted, limited, along with a whole onslaught of negative
emotions. This is how you’ll know if you’re thinking.
I use my feelings as an internal radar that tells me whether I’m
getting direct downloads of thoughts from the Universe or if I’m in my
head thinking about my thoughts.
You can only ever feel what you’re thinking, so feelings and
emotions are like an intuitive internal dashboard which tells me if I’m
thinking too much or not.
If I’m having a lot of negative emotions, I know that I’m thinking
too much. This is another example of how we’re naturally built for
success.
Below is a chart that compares Thinking vs. Thoughts to help you
identify which one is which within your mind:

Thoughts vs. Thinking Chart
Attribute

Thought

Thinking

Source

Universe

Ego

Weight

Light

Heavy

Energy

Expansive

Restrictive

Nature

Infinite

Limited

Quality

Creative

Destructive

Charge

Positive

Negative

Essence

Divine

Mortal

Feeling

Alive

Stressful

Emotion

Love

Fear

Belief

Infinite
Possibilities

Confining

Sense

Wholeness

Separateness

Effort

Effortless

Laborious

CHAPTER 5
IF WE CAN ONLY FEEL WHAT WE'RE THINKING,
DON'T WE NEED TO THINK POSITIVELY TO FEEL
THAT WAY?
“We are ever only one thought away from peace, love, and joy —
which come from a state of no thought.” — Dicken Bettinger
There is a caveat that I haven't mentioned yet to the principle that we
can only feel what we're thinking. The more accurate way of
describing it is that we can only ever feel negative emotions when
we are thinking.
The goal isn't necessarily to completely stop feeling negative
emotions. Some of the negative emotions can be helpful, such as
feeling fearful when deciding to walk down a dark alley alone with no
one else in sight.
These negative emotions are only helpful to us in terms of
survival, but if we don't constantly encounter life or death situations,
negative emotions are more unhelpful than helpful for most of us.
We're going to be moving forward with the context that we're not
struggling for physical survival, so we'll be using the context that
negative emotions are not necessary most of the time.
When I mention that we can only ever feel what we're thinking,
most people assume that we must think positive to feel positive
emotions.
Instead of convincing you if this is true or not, let's do another
thought experiment so you can experience the truth for yourself.
Recall a time when you felt the most joy and love you've ever felt
in your life and feel the feelings that you felt at that time as much as
you can for at least 30 seconds.
What kinds of thoughts were going through your mind at that peak
moment when you felt the most joy and love? (I'm not asking what

you were doing at the time, but what thoughts were going through
your head at that exact moment.)
For many people that answer this, they realize that they didn't
have any thoughts during that exact moment. For others, they say
that the thought was that they were so grateful or happy.
For those that answered that they had the thought that they were
grateful, did you feel that joy and love before you had that thought or
after?
Take 10-15 seconds to answer that question before moving on.
What insights and epiphanies did you have?
What's crazy is that most people didn't have any thoughts going
through their mind when they felt the happiest and the most amount
of love in their lives. For those that had the thought that they were
grateful, they felt that way before having that thought.
If they had that thought, it happened after they felt the feelings, so
the thought could not have produced the feeling.
This brings us to another truth: you do not have to have
thoughts or think to feel positive emotions.
The beautiful part about truth is that it needs no justification
because it can be experienced right here right now. It doesn't need
to be proven or rationalized to you and you experienced this truth
firsthand by the experiment we just did.
Here's why we don't need to have thoughts or think to feel positive
emotions like joy and love.
Our natural state of being IS joy, love, ecstasy, freedom, and
gratitude. This may be hard to believe because if it's natural, why
don't we feel that way all the time? I'll answer this in a bit.
If we want to see the natural state of anything, one of the best
ways is to look at nature and the state of it in its infancy (before it is
affected and conditioned by its environment).
For example, let's look at the natural state of a baby. What is a
baby's natural and default state (assuming the baby wasn't abused,
neglected, or had any physical issues)? Are babies naturally
stressed, anxious, fearful, and self-conscious? Or are they naturally
in a state of bliss, happiness, and love?

Our natural state of being is joy, love, and peace. Therefore, any
thinking that we do will only take us away from those natural states
of being, which is why whenever we feel extremely stressed, we are
having a LOT of thinking going on. The strength of the negative
emotion we feel is in direct proportion to how much thinking we are
doing in the moment.
On the other hand, the intensity of the positive emotion we feel is
inversely proportional to the amount of thinking we are doing in the
moment. In other words, the less thinking we have going on, the
stronger the positive emotion we feel in the present.
To see the truth in this, recall a few other memories you had when
you were extremely stressed and anxious and see how much
thinking was going on at the time.
Take about 1-2 minutes to do this.
Then recall a few memories where you were at your happiest or
felt the most joy and love and see how much thinking you had going
on at that time.
Take another 1-2 minutes to do this before moving on to really
experience and internalize the truth of what you see.
An analogy that my coach taught me that helped crystallize this
concept was to imagine our mind has a speedometer (like in a car),
but instead of miles per hour, it is thoughts per minute. The more
thinking we have going on, the higher the “thought-o-meter” goes,
and if we have enough thinking going on, it'll go into the red zone.
This is when we feel extremely stressed, burned out, frustrated, and
angry.
It is not the content of our thinking that causes us stress, but that
we are thinking, period. The amount of thinking we have going on is
directly correlated to the magnitude of stress and negative emotions
we are experiencing at any given moment. When you're
experiencing a lot of frustration, stress, anxiety, or any negative
emotions, just know that it is because you're thinking, and the
intensity of those emotions is directly correlated to how much
thinking is going on.

Therefore, it's not WHAT we're thinking about that is causing
us suffering, but THAT we are thinking.
To summarize, we do not have to try to "think positive" to
experience love, joy, bliss, and any positive emotions we want
because it is our natural state to feel those emotions. The only times
we don't naturally feel these emotions is when we begin to think
about the thoughts we're having, thus blocking the direct connection
to Infinite Intelligence and we feel stressed, anxious, depressed, and
fearful. It is not about the content of our thinking, but that we're
thinking, which is the root cause of our suffering. The intensity of the
negative emotions is directly correlated to the amount of thinking we
have going on in the present. The less thinking we have, the more
space we create for positive emotions to naturally surface.

CHAPTER 6
HOW THE HUMAN EXPERIENCE IS CREATED THE THREE PRINCIPLES
“If the only thing people learned was not to be afraid of their
experience, that alone would change the world.” — Sydney Banks
At its fundamental level, the human experience is created by these
three principles: Universal Mind, Consciousness, and Thought.
These three principles work together to allow us to experience
everything we do in life and if one of the three is missing, we
wouldn't be able to experience anything. These principles were first
discovered by Sydney Banks and now I have the humbling privilege
to share them with you.
Understanding these three principles enables us to know how we
can alleviate ourselves from our suffering, but also allows us to
create from Source.
Universal Mind
Universal Mind is the Intelligence behind all living things. It is the
life force and energy that is in all things. It is how an acorn knows
how to grow into a tree, how the planets know how to stay in orbit,
and how our bodies know how to heal itself when we get a cut. It's
how our bodies know how to self-regulate and keep us alive without
us having to manually do everything like breathing and beating our
heart. The Intelligence that knows how to do all of this and is in all
things is called the Universal Mind. Many people call this God,
Infinite Intelligence, the Quantum Field, Source, and other names.
This is where Thoughts come from as well as everything else in the
Universe. All things are connected by Universal Mind. There is no
separation between anything, and any time there seems to be
separation between things, it is merely an illusion of our thinking.
When we are connected to Universal Mind, we feel whole, fulfilled,
filled with love, joy, peace, and inspiration. It is only when we begin

thinking (believing the illusion or ego) that we block this flow of
Universal Mind and begin to feel separated, frustrated, lonely, angry,
resentful, sad, depressed, and fearful.
Universal Consciousness
Universal Consciousness is the collective consciousness of all
things. It is what allows us to be aware that we exist and aware of
our thoughts. Without Universal Consciousness, we wouldn't be able
to experience anything. Our five senses would have no use because
there's nothing to be aware of. This is what brings things to life and
makes them perceivable to us.
Universal Thought
Universal Thought is the raw material of the Universe from which
we can create from. It is our ability to think and create form from the
energy of the Universal Mind.
It's the object we can perceive through Consciousness. Without
Thought, we would have nothing to be aware of. Thought is like the
DVD that contains all the information for us to be able to watch the
movie on the TV. The TV and DVD player is like Consciousness — it
allows us to have a mechanism to bring the information on the DVD
to life for us to be able to watch and experience the movie. The
electricity that's needed to power the DVD player and TV is like
Universal Mind in the sense that it is the invisible energy/force that
connects and powers all things. It is the Source from which
everything can work and function.

CHAPTER 7
IF THINKING IS THE ROOT CAUSE OF OUR
SUFFERING, HOW DO WE STOP THINKING?
“A crowded mind leaves no space for a peaceful heart.” — Christine
Evangelou
Heaven and Hell: A Zen Parable
A tough, brawny samurai once approached a Zen master who was
deep in meditation. Impatient and discourteous, the samurai
demanded in his husky voice so accustomed to forceful yelling, “Tell
me the nature of heaven and hell.”
The Zen master opened his eyes, looked the samurai in the face,
and replied with a certain scorn, “Why should I answer to a shabby,
disgusting, despondent slob like you? A worm like you, do you think I
should tell you anything? I can’t stand you. Get out of my sight. I
have no time for silly questions.”
The samurai could not bear these insults. Consumed by rage, he
drew his sword and raised it to sever the master’s head at once.
Looking straight into the samurai’s eyes, the Zen master tenderly
declared, “That’s hell.”
The samurai froze. He immediately understood that anger had
him in its grip. His mind had just created his own hell — one filled
with resentment, hatred, self-defense, and fury. He realized that he
was so deep in his torment that he was ready to kill somebody.
The samurai’s eyes filled with tears. Setting his sword aside, he
put his palms together and obsequiously bowed in gratitude for this
insight.
The Zen master gently acknowledged with a delicate smile, “And
that’s heaven.”
It's not possible to just entirely stop thinking, but what we can do
is reduce the time we spend thinking so that it gets smaller and

smaller each day that passes. Eventually we can get to the point
where we spend most of our day not caught up in our thinking and
live in a blissful state most of the time.
When we say that we want to stop thinking, many people assume
that we are trying to stop all thoughts in general. This isn't what we're
trying to do. Now that you know the difference between thoughts and
thinking, we are working on allowing thoughts to come and flow
through us while we minimize the thinking about those thoughts that
emerge.
The most interesting and almost paradoxical thing about stopping
our thinking is that we don't have to do anything to minimize it other
than to be aware of it. By us becoming aware that we are thinking
and that it is the root cause of all our suffering, it automatically
makes us conscious to that fact and we become detached to it,
allowing it to settle and pass. This takes almost no effort and is done
through pure presence in the moment.
Here’s an analogy from one of my mentors that illustrates this
concept:
Imagine I give you a bowl of cloudy, dirty, murky water. If I asked
you, how you would make the water clear, how would you do it?
Take 15 seconds to see what answers you come up with before
moving on.
Most people say something along the lines of filtering the water or
even boiling it. What most people don't realize is that if we let the
bowl of dirty water sit for a period of time, we can see that the dirt
begins to settle on its own in the water and after a while, the water
becomes clear on its own.
This is how our minds also work. If we let our thinking sit without
disturbing it by trying to "filter" or "boil" it, the thinking will settle down
on its own and our minds will become free from thinking. The natural
state of water is clear, and the natural state of our minds is also
clear, if we do not disturb it.
If life begins to feel unclear, disorganized, stressful and you're not
sure what to do next, you now know that it's only because your
thinking is stirring up the dirt, making your mind cloudy and difficult to

see ahead. You can use this as an indicator to help you realize that
you're thinking way too much.
Once we become aware of the fact that we are only feeling what
we're thinking and that thinking is the root cause of our unpleasant
experience, we see it for what it truly is. Then we allow it to settle by
giving it space, and slowly we will see how we begin to have a clear
mind again.
You can also compare thinking to quicksand. The more that we
fight our thinking, the more it amplifies the negative emotions and the
worse it gets. The same is true for quicksand. If we’re in quicksand,
the way out isn’t to fight it. If we panic and frantically try to fight it, it
only makes things worse by tightening the grip it has on us and
pulling us under faster. The only way out is to stop struggling and
allowing the natural buoyancy of your body to take over to bring you
back up to the surface with ease. The only way to break free from
our thinking is to let go and trust that our natural inner wisdom will
guide us back to clarity and peace like it always has.
If you find yourself fluctuating between thinking and non-thinking,
know that it is completely okay and quite normal. There is no way
that we can remain in a state of non-thinking every second of every
day and if we try to make that a goal, we will cause ourselves to
suffer by forcing ourselves back into thinking again.
We are spiritual, infinite beings having a physical, finite
experience. Because of this, we are literally a living gateway
between the human and the divine, so we will naturally oscillate
between the two states of feeling anxious/stressed and
joyful/peaceful. We cannot control or prevent the oscillation between
thinking and non-thinking, but we can minimize the time spent in
thinking and thus creating more moments where we do feel joyful,
peaceful, passionate, and full of love.
Although not being able to control when we begin to think can
seem like we are cursed with an inevitable fate, it is not something to
worry about because we can always return to the state of nonthinking. It is just a part of our beautiful human experience.

What can give us true peace is knowing that we always have this
state of pure peace, love, and fulfillment underneath any thinking
that we may ever have at any given moment. That beautiful state we
always want is something we can never lose, but only forget. But just
because we can forget it doesn't mean it's not there. Just like when it
becomes night and the sun sets, we know that the sun is always
there, we just can't see it. If we thought when the sun sets that it may
never come back, then understandably we will have a lot of anxious
and fearful thoughts. The same is true for our state of being.
We are ever really one moment away from remembering that
we always have that infinite well of clarity, love, joy, peace, and
fulfillment. We will forget sometimes, but when we do remember
and realize that we are caught up in our thinking when we
experience negative emotions, that alone will allow us to return back
home to our natural beautiful state. All we have to do is remember it,
know that this is just our thinking, and have peace knowing that the
sun is not gone forever and that it will rise again soon enough.
Having that understanding will allow us to also appreciate the
nighttime for its existence and role in the Universe. From that we can
see how it is meant to be a part of our human experience and begin
to cherish its beauty as much as the sun.

CHAPTER 8
HOW CAN WE POSSIBLY THRIVE IN THE WORLD
WITHOUT THINKING?
“Anxiety is thought without control. Flow is control without thought.”
— James Clear
Here’s a question that will guide you to an insight about this
question:
What thoughts are going through your head when you're doing
your absolute best work where you're fully captivated and entranced
by what you're doing in the moment?
Take about 15 seconds to wait for an answer to pop up before
moving on.
If you still haven't had the insight or epiphany from the answer,
here's another question that may point you in the right direction:
When you are loving what you do so much and are completely
engrossed in it that you lose all sense of time and space (aka when
you're in a state of complete flow), what thoughts are going through
your mind as you're in the state of flow in the moment?
Pause here and wait for the answer to arise (give it about 30-60
seconds for the insight to come in).
When you are doing your best work and are in a total state of flow,
where there is no separation between you or the work you are doing,
you are having no thoughts in the moment. And if you are having
thoughts, it's just flowing right through you without you having to
think about it. In other words, the state of peak performance for
humans can be described as the state of non-thinking. It may seem
crazy, but we do our best work when we aren't thinking, and you just
proved it with your own experience.
Here's another example that will help illuminate the truth of this
topic. When professional or even Olympic athletes are competing, do
you think they are thinking and overanalyzing every single thing
that's happening during the game? What thoughts or thinking do you

think is going on during the competition for them? The highest
performing athletes will describe when they are in their peak state
that they are in "the zone". This "zone" is the state of flow or the
state of non-thinking.
In Japanese culture, they have a beautiful word to describe this
phenomenon: mushin.
Here is the definition from Shotokantimes:
“Mushin is achieved when [the] mind is free of random thoughts,
free of anger, free of fear, and particularly free of ego. It applies
during combat, and or other facets of life. When mushin is achieved
during combat there is an absence of loose or rambling thoughts. It
leaves the practitioner free to act and react without hesitation. He
reacts according to all of the study and training that has brought the
karateka to this point. Relying on, not what you think should be your
next move, but on what your trained, instinctive, subconscious
reaction directs you to do.”
After practice, thinking hinders the performance of athletes and
the same is true for everyone. We only hesitate, are reluctant, have
doubts, insecurities, and fears only when we begin thinking and
over-analyzing. We function and perform our best and embody our
full potential the moment we enter a state of non-thinking. Without
thinking, we are free from limitations of the ego and are able to
create the most incredible things in the world. I am not asking you to
adopt this belief, but to try it and experience it for yourself so that you
gain the insight to make it your own.

CHAPTER 9
IF WE STOP THINKING, WHAT DO WE DO ABOUT
OUR GOALS, DREAMS & AMBITIONS?
“There are no limitations to the mind except those we acknowledge.”
— Napoleon Hill
I think, therefore I suffer.
When I finally understood that thinking was the root cause of all of
my suffering, I was jumping up and down, exhilarated, relieved and
grateful for discovering the true reason for everything negative I've
experienced in my life. This ecstasy was short-lived though because
soon after the exuberance settled, the next thoughts popped into my
mind:
If thinking is the root cause of all my suffering and I just stop
thinking, how do I live my life now? What about all of my goals,
dreams, and ambitions? Do I stop wanting things in life? Will I just
devolve into a couch potato and not do anything with my life
anymore?
In case you were wondering, yes, I am telepathic and yes, I can
read your mind. Just kidding, but if you are wondering how I wrote
the exact or very similar questions and know what thoughts you most
likely have right now, it's because I am human also, contrary to
popular belief. All of us are going through similar journeys of
awakening to our True Selves, so rest assured that many people are
having the exact same thoughts you are having right now as you
come to see your true magnificence.
Now back to the question of what we do about our goals, dreams,
and ambitions if we stop thinking. As I pondered on these questions,
an incredible amount of fear and anxiety began to surface because I
thought that I would have to give all of it up and become a monk in
the middle of the mountains.

I was definitely not ready to do that. As much as I wish I were that
enlightened and detached from my life, I genuinely enjoyed being in
the world, experiencing the fullness of life with other people, even if a
large portion of my life was filled with suffering.
Here's what I've discovered about what to do with our goals and
dreams with this new understanding. As we've mentioned in previous
chapters, there's a difference between thoughts versus thinking. The
source of thoughts and the source of thinking are different, and the
source is what will dictate whether it causes suffering or not.
Similarly, where our goals and dreams come from will determine
whether we feel great about pursuing them or not. Like everything in
this world, there is nothing inherently good or bad, only our thinking
makes it so. Goals, dreams, and ambitions are not good or bad, so
it's not really an either-or situation, but more about where those
goals are coming from.
There are two sources of goals: goals created out of
inspiration and goals created out of desperation.
When goals are created out of desperation, we feel a large sense
of scarcity and urgency. It feels heavy, like a burden, we may even
feel daunted by the colossal task we've just committed ourselves to,
imposter syndrome and self-doubt begin to manifest, and we always
feel like we never have enough time for anything. We go about our
life frantically, desperately searching for answers and ways that we
can accomplish our goal faster, always looking externally, never
feeling enough or that we can ever get enough. Worst of all, if we
happen to accomplish our goal, within a few hours or days
afterwards, all of those same feelings of lack begin to resurface. We
begin not feeling content with what we have done, unable to savor
our accomplishments and because what we did never feels like it’s
enough, we feel that same way about ourselves. Not knowing what
else to do, we look around for guidance externally to see what others
are doing and see they're continuing to do the same thing. Thus, we
go ahead and proceed to set another goal out of desperation in an
attempt to escape all of the negative feelings gnawing away at our
soul. When we dig a little deeper into these types of goals we set,

they are all typically “means goals” and not “end goals”. In other
words, the goals we set in this state of desperation are all a means
to an end. There's always a reason we want to accomplish the goal
and it's always for something else. For example, we want to create a
multi-million-dollar business because we want financial freedom, or
we want to quit our job so that we can escape the stress and anxiety
that comes from it. We feel like we HAVE to do these things instead
of WANT to. Goals created from desperation are typically "realistic"
and created from analyzing our past and what we think to be
"plausible" in the moment. It feels very confining and limiting.
Although these types of goals and dreams may excite us in the
moment, as soon as we begin to try to create it, we feel a lack, and
we are desperate to bring the dream to life. Paradoxically, if we do
end up achieving a goal created out of desperation, we end up
feeling even more empty than we did before it. The next "logical"
thing we tend to do is to set an even bigger goal out of even greater
desperation to hopefully make us feel whole inside.
This is how most of us set our goals and how we live our lives. I'm
also not saying this to criticize or judge at all, but to reveal the reality
of it. The only reason why I was able to describe it in painful and
excruciating detail was because that was my life.
Here's the good news: it's not your fault that you set goals that
way if you are and there's a way out. It's through creating goals and
dreams out of inspiration instead of desperation.
When we create goals out of inspiration versus desperation, it is a
completely different story. In this state, we are creating because we
feel deeply moved, inspired, and expansive. It feels like a calling
rather than an obligation. It is like there's a powerful force of life
coming from within us, wanting to be expressed through us to be
made manifested into the physical world. This is why painters paint,
why dancers dance, why writers write and why singers sing, even if
they never get paid or make a living from it. We feel pulled by a force
to create something. We gravitate towards it. We feel compelled to
do it. When we feel like this, we are creating from a place of
abundance instead of lack.

Most surprising of all is that in this state, we are creating not for
any reason at all, other than because we simply want to. We don't
create because we feel like we HAVE to. We create because we
simply want to and there's no other reason. We aren't creating these
goals so that we can do something else or use it as a means to get
something else we want. This creating comes from a place of
wholeness and abundance. It's an overflowing of love and joy for life.
This is the reason why most of us want or have kids. It's not so that
we can milk our kids for their money once they're old enough to work
and hopefully use them as a retirement plan. We want to have kids
because we want to share the abundance of what we have with
them, and it comes from a place of sharing what we have lots of
versus trying to get something out of them.
This feeling of deep inspiration is incredibly difficult to describe
because it does not come from this world. It really doesn't come from
us, but through us from something greater than us. I like to call this
feeling divine inspiration because the ideas and vision we have of
what we want to create seem to be far bigger than we could have
possibly imagined or come up with ourselves. Since divine
inspiration doesn't come from us but from something greater, it
doesn't analyze or rely on past data or what you or anyone in the
world has already accomplished. Divine inspiration is what happens
when groundbreaking creations and inventions are created that
seemed to be impossible not too long ago. It knows no boundaries,
limits, or constraints. It is an incredibly expansive force that
energizes and lifts us, making us feel like we're "high" on life. In this
state, we feel whole, complete, filled with unconditional love, joy, and
peace. We don't analyze, compare, criticize, judge, or rationalize
anything, but instead we truly live, love, share, give, create, grow,
and nourish. It really is one of the greatest feelings we can
experience, and it is truly a gift that we can experience the divine as
humans (and it's because we're from the same source).
Everyone has experienced this deep feeling and desire to create
something marvelous in the world that's out of pure inspiration and
not desperation. Before moving on to the next paragraph, I

encourage you to test this theory. Pause here and spend a few
minutes thinking about times in your life where you felt an
overwhelming feeling and desire to create something magnificent
because you felt deeply inspired and called to. It doesn't matter if
you actually created it or not, but just think of a time where you felt
that feeling to create out of inspiration.
Isn't that just one of the most amazing feelings in the entire world?
Most of us feel this divine inspiration, but then suppress it as soon as
we begin thinking about doing it. We begin to think ourselves into
doubt, rationalize why we can't do it, tell ourselves that it is
unrealistic, how we should focus on more important things, and that
we're not good enough to do it. As soon as we begin to think about
the thought of us wanting to create, it completely shuts off the source
of that inspiration and we go back to living life as usual. When we cut
off that source, we also cut off the feelings of abundance,
exuberance, ecstasy, joy, pure unconditional love, and go back to the
feelings of doubt, anxiety, frustration, sadness, and feel confined,
stuck, and frustrated with our lives.
We can only ever follow one calling at a time, either inspiration or
desperation in the present moment. The two cannot coexist at the
same time, but we can fluctuate between the two depending on how
much thinking is going on.
When we stop thinking, we don't stop having goals and dreams,
we actually fall back into our true nature and begin to create goals
and dreams out of inspiration versus desperation. We begin to allow
thoughts from the Universe to come into our mind that lead us to
divine inspiration to create something that has never been created
before in the world. When we follow divine inspiration, we feel alive,
whole, joy, love, peace, and fulfillment.
So how can we tell when a goal or dream is created out of
inspiration or desperation?
A simple way to know if a goal or dream is created out of
inspiration is to remember the distinction between thoughts and
thinking. Goals and dreams that come in the form of thought are

created out of inspiration. Goals and dreams that come from thinking
are created out of desperation.
Typically, when we think, we'll analyze, judge, criticize, rationalize,
and use our past to try to create our new goals, but this form of
creating goals feels extremely restricting and limiting. We don't
typically feel good when creating these types of goals and when
we're pursuing them, we do not feel great either, since it's all out of
desperation.
Another way to identify the two is to sense how you feel
energetically. Goals and dreams created out of desperation will feel
very heavy, draining, confining, and empty. We tend to feel a lot of
scarcity, fear, and stress, like we HAVE to do it or that we are
obligated to. With these types of goals, it seems like if we do not
accomplish it, that there will be dire consequences, hence the high
pressure and stakes (I'm sure you can see now how this can create
the feeling of desperation). Moreover, we feel like we're trying to
accomplish these goals to escape our current situation and get out of
something. Our goals created in this state are typically means goals,
meaning that we want to achieve these goals so that we can do
something else afterwards, such as having the goal to quit our job.
Most likely you'll have this goal because you want to go do
something you actually enjoy, but you can see how the goal of
quitting your job is just a means goal for you to go do something
else. Or having a goal of making $1 million is typically set because
you want to have financial freedom and go travel the world. These
goals are always a means to an end and not the end itself. There's
always a reason that we want to accomplish these goals and it
makes us feel very empty inside.
I want to emphasize that none of these goals are inherently bad or
that we shouldn't have goals of wanting to make money or quitting
our jobs. If those goals are created from inspiration, that is
completely different. It just depends on the source of the goals and
not necessarily the goal itself. This is an important distinction to
make, otherwise you'll spend most of your time debating and
stressing yourself out over if this is the right goal for you or not.

There is no right or wrong goal, only goals created from inspiration or
desperation. It just depends on how you want to feel inside and
when you're aware of these two types of goals and how they
manifest, then you'll be able to feel blissful as you go about creating
amazing things in your life.
On the other hand, goals and dreams created out of inspiration
(which comes from thought) feel very light, energizing, uplifting, and
expansive. We tend to feel excited, joyful, and most importantly,
inspired. We don't feel like we HAVE to create it, but that we WANT
to. Instead of feeling like you NEED to do this, you feel inspired to.
There is virtually no pressure because we're not trying to get out of
something or escape our current situation by accomplishing this
goal. There is no scarcity or urgency because we don't feel like we're
creating from a place of lack, but instead from a place of abundance
and we just want to share it with the world. Since it's coming from
inspiration, we are not doing it to get something out of it so that we
can do something else. It's not a means goal, but simply an end in
and of itself. There is no "reason" we need to create it. We are not
creating so that we can feel whole, but we are creating because we
feel whole and want to give from that place, not expecting anything
from it.
I'm sure you can see the stark difference between the two now
and that you can tell which type your goals currently fall under. If
most of your goals fall under the category of desperation, don't worry
because most people have goals created from desperation, including
myself before I knew a better way.
So how do we create goals and dreams out of inspiration versus
desperation?
Creating goals and dreams from divine inspiration isn't something
you have to try to do. We naturally have thoughts of infinite
inspiration all the time. If you look at children, they naturally have the
wildest dreams and imaginations of what they want to do. It almost
doesn't even register in their minds that they can't do something
most of the time. The only difference between us and children is that
we have learned to shut down all these thoughts of inspiration which

contain our dreams, hopes, and goals that we truly want to see
manifested in the world. Our minds are filled more with reasons of
why we can't than thoughts of what we want to create.
We innately have an infinite flow of inspiration that comes through
us, but we block that flow as soon as we begin thinking about the
thoughts we have, which causes self-doubt, self-sabotage, and
anxiety. Think of the flow of inspiration to create like a river. The river
always flows until man puts something there to block it, like a dam.
Then when the dam is there, we ask why there are so many fish
dying, animals disappearing, and forests dwindling, when all we
need to do was return the river back to its natural state and
everything will be working perfectly fine, the way nature intended it
to.
This is the same for our minds and our goals. We always dream,
have big goals, and know what to do at all times when we're tapped
into our inner wisdom and inner intelligence, free from thinking. If we
simply do not think about our thoughts, any sort of thoughts about
dreams, goals, and desires that naturally arise are all from the divine
and that is how you "create" goals out of inspiration versus
desperation.
A question that greatly helps me to settle the thinking and tap into
the limitless well of possibilities of what I could create is:
"If I had infinite money, already traveled the world, had no
fear, and didn't receive any recognition for what I do, what
would I do or what would I create?"
Whenever we ask questions, answers always arise. It is
impossible for our brains to hear a question and not come up with a
response. So when you ask yourself this question, whatever begins
to come up for you without any manual thinking will be from the
divine and from inspiration versus desperation.
The way the question is worded is extremely important because it
removes most of the thinking, fear, criticism, and external reasons of
why you would want to do something, so it focuses your answer on
what you truly want to create (usually it's for no reason other than

you just wanting to create it because it's fun), without any influences
from the material world.
Try asking the question and seeing what comes up for you! You'll
be surprised at what surfaces, but don't get caught up with your
thinking when those true dreams of yours begin to be revealed to
you.
To a mind without the limits of thinking, anything is possible.

CHAPTER 10
UNCONDITIONAL LOVE & CREATION
“The greatest power that mankind could ever achieve is the power of
unconditional love. This is when people love with no limitations,
conditions or boundaries.” — Tony Green
Unconditional Love
I learned about unconditional love from my extraordinary girlfriend,
Makenna. For most of my life, I always questioned everything. I had
to know the reason behind why things were the way they were,
otherwise, I would go crazy. I couldn't just experience life knowing
the meaning and reasoning behind everything.
Naturally, as anyone would in a relationship after dating her for
about a year at the time, I asked Makenna why she loved me. She
innocently replied that she didn't know why, she just knew she did.
Then she asked me why I loved her and I listed off dozens of
different reasons why. It ranged from her beautiful smile to her
adorable laugh, how pure her heart is, how much she loves her
family, how intelligent she is, and the list goes on almost indefinitely.
We've been dating for 6 years now and every few months after
that first time I asked, I would ask her why she loved me and even
up until this point, she still says the same thing, "I don't know, I just
know that I love you — a lot."
This slightly bothered me for so long because I didn't understand
why she didn't know why she loved me. I could list off 50 reasons of
why I loved her, but she couldn't list a few. Even still throughout the
years, I loved her so much I didn't really mind that she didn't know. I
just accepted it and continued to love her anyway because I couldn't
help myself.
It wasn't until a few months ago that it dawned on me as to why
she couldn't think of reasons of why she loved me. I began to
question the reasons that I had for why I loved Makenna. Then I had
an epiphany that changed my life forever.

I asked myself, did I love her because of her laugh or because
she loves helping other people? What happens if she doesn't laugh
one day or doesn't help someone that day? Do I stop loving her if
she doesn't do the things that I said were the reasons that I love
her? I realized that if I create reasons for why I love her, then it
makes my love for her conditional to those specific traits or actions
and if she doesn't do them, then I don't love her. This is, of course,
not true.
In that moment, I had the awe-inspiring insight that Makenna
couldn't list off reasons of why she loved me because her love for me
was unconditional. There were no reasons for why she loved me
because if she had reasons, it would mean she only loved me if I
were exuding those traits or doing those things she had in her mind.
Her love for me is not based on my mood or what I did, her love
for me goes beyond all “reasons” and does not come from a place of
reciprocity. She does not love me because I love her, nor is she
loving me because of what I can do for her. She is experiencing so
much love within herself that it’s an outpour of an abundance of love
that she is gifting me unconditionally.
Attempting to articulate the feeling of this and where it comes from
is probably the hardest thing I've ever done in my life because I’m
attempting to describe the indescribable.
From this experience, I learned to make my love for Makenna
unconditional by not placing reasons or conditions for when I would
love her (because if I did that, by default I place conditions on when I
would not love her). There is just so much love in me now because
I've experienced it that there is simply an outpour of unconditional
love where I can't help but love her no matter what. This
unconditional love doesn't come from external reasons, but comes
from within from the infinite source we all came from.
We are all connected to this pure, unconditional love, which is
God, the Universe, or whichever name you choose to use. The only
thing that gets in the way of this is our own thinking, which separates
and cuts us off from that unconditional love.

Unconditional Creation
Unconditional creation is the purest form of creation there is.
When something is created from unconditional love, we can't help
but to stand there and admire it in awe. Unconditional creation is
always innovative, unique, new, captivating, bold, different,
revolutionary in its own way. Very few people operate in this space
because we always put conditions around what we do or make.
For example, whenever we are working to achieve a goal of
making more money, we might go and try to create income for
ourselves. This is conditional creation because no one wants money
just to have money. Most people want money for something else or
to be able to use it for another thing they want.
This, by nature, makes what they are creating, conditional. They
are only creating this because they want something else out of it.
When we create something for something else, typically we do not
enjoy the process of creating, because it is always just a means to
an end, never an end in itself.
This is why we always feel like we're chasing, grinding, hustling,
trying, and feeling constantly stressed and overwhelmed. Even after
we accomplish our goal, we'll only enjoy it for those few seconds and
then we're off to another goal we have to chase because we never
actually got what we were looking for.
What we're ultimately looking for are feelings. We want more
money to get a sense of security and peace. We want to spend time
with our family because it makes us feel so much love and joy. We
want to do what we love because it gives us a sense of fulfillment
inside. These are all ultimately feelings that we are trying to get, but
we keep thinking that the goal or object we want will give us those
feelings. This idea is inherently flawed because our feelings can only
ever be generated from within us, not from external things. External
things can prompt us to create the feelings, but ultimately it is us that
produces those feelings from within ourselves.
What's paradoxical (like everything in the duality of life), is that
when we create something without conditions or reasons, we
actually immediately feel all of the positive feelings we want.

Unconditional creation is creating something without it being for
another purpose, but purely to create it because we just want to
create it. It's not for money, fame, love, or anything else. We create it
simply because we want to create it. This is creation from
abundance. When we create from this state, we already feel whole
inside and all of the love we want to feel is what we're feeling in the
moment.
We can only pursue unconditional creation if we are in the state of
non-thinking. Our brains will make us think that it is pointless to do
something just simply because we want to, but that is the secret. As
soon as we do things for no other reason, we step into the realm of
living our life unconditionally. This is when we experience flow,
oneness, and a direct connection to the Universe/God.

CHAPTER 11
WHAT DO YOU DO NEXT AFTER EXPERIENCING
PEACE, JOY, LOVE & FULFILLMENT IN THE
PRESENT?
"Don't think. It complicates things. Just feel, and if it feels like home
then follow its path.” — R.M. Drake.
If you’ve been applying the principles in the book, you’ve most likely
been able to find peace through non-thinking. If not, I highly
encourage you to remember that all of our negative feelings come
from our thinking. All you have to do is become aware of that fact,
which will settle the thinking just like the debris settling in dirty water.
Once you see that it is just your thinking and that there’s nothing to
be afraid of, then you will experience true peace in your life in the
present.
Once you have been able to experience peace, you might be
unsure as to what to do next. At this point in time, you may be
experiencing worry, anxiety, and doubt. Many of my clients, including
myself, began to wonder if they lost their edge and drive to do
anything in the world. Don't worry, this is all normal and part of
the process of awakening.
You've already learned the hardest part, which is to practice nonthinking and preventing your negative thinking from controlling your
life.
The reason why we feel worried, anxiety, and doubt after we’ve
experienced peace is because we have just let go of everything we
thought we knew in the world. What actually happened was the
death of the personal ego. A natural consequence is that once the
personal ego is threatened, it will do everything in its power to regain
control over your life again.
The ego is something that we can’t quite get rid of forever, which
is why even after you experience peace, there may be feelings of

doubt, worry, and anxiety coming up. It is in this moment that the ego
(thinking) will come back up to attempt to reclaim your throne. But
worry not because you’ve already learned how you can quickly
dismantle your ego (your thinking) by remembering that your thinking
is the only cause of your negative feelings. The point is to not try to
prevent your thinking from ever entering your mind, but to shorten
the time that it takes for you to remember that it is just your thinking
that’s causing the negative emotions. It’s impossible to prevent
thinking from happening because it’s so engrained in us.
For example, it’s in our human nature that when we suddenly see
that we’re about to step on a venomous snake on our path, we will
freak out. But when you realize that it’s just a piece of rope, you see
through the illusion, knowing that your thinking is what caused you to
become afraid and you resume your peaceful walk on the beautiful
trail. We can’t prevent that initial reaction, but we can always
remember the truth and return to our natural state of peace — and
that’s all that matters.
Another reason that we may feel anxiety, worry, and doubt once
we experience peace is because we were using a colossal amount
of energy when we were thinking all of the time. Most people spend
the majority of their day in a state of stress (thinking), which
consumes enormous amounts of energy. When we stop thinking, this
energy you used to use to think is now “freed up”, but it hasn’t been
directed anywhere yet and what happens is we return to our old
patterns of putting that energy back into thinking because that is how
we were conditioned. What we can do in this case is to channel the
newfound energy into our goals of inspiration. This is the cure and
intervention of preventing this energy from going back into
overthinking.
For this to work, make sure that you’ve spent some time creating
your goals out of inspiration (versus desperation) and having it top of
mind so that you can channel all of your energy towards it once you
experience this phenomenon. If you have only goals of desperation
in your mind, then directing energy towards it will only perpetuate the
thinking and negative feelings.

What tends to help many people in this stage is to also have an
“activation ritual”. An activation ritual is a morning routine that helps
them get into a state of non-thinking and flow. It helps you build
momentum in a positive direction immediately when you wake up so
that it’s easier to stay in that state of non-thinking for the rest of the
day. An object in motion will stay in motion. I never understood why
spiritual masters and all great leaders have a morning routine until I
understood the power of non-thinking and momentum.
Here’s the good news: now that all of your energy isn't tied up into
thinking anymore, you can now use this freed-up energy and
channel it into creating new goals from inspiration to fuel and propel
you into your new life full of peace, joy, and love.

CHAPTER 12
NOTHING IS EITHER GOOD OR BAD
"There is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so." —
William Shakespeare
Here's an analogy that helps put this into perspective. On a piano,
there are 88 keys. When we look at a piano, we don't point out
specific keys for no reason and say that that key is "wrong". We only
think a specific key is "wrong", if we think someone is playing a
specific song and hits a key that isn't in the song.
Inherently, the piano has no wrong keys though. There are only
keys and notes that sound more or less pleasant when played
consecutively.
Just like how there are no wrong keys on the piano, there are no
"wrong" decisions in life. There’s only thinking that give us pleasant
or not so pleasant feelings. When we put things into a bucket of right
or wrong, good or bad, this creates duality and conditions in our
lives, which determines how we feel.
For instance, if we believe that that opposing political parties are
wrong or bad, this can cause animosity within us and make us feel a
concoction of negative emotions.
If, on the other hand, we see different political parties in the same
way as there are different keys on the piano and how there are no
inherently "wrong" parties, then we open ourselves up to experience
love, joy, and peace in the moment. We begin to see alternative
perspectives that we haven't seen before and have an opportunity to
deepen our understanding of the true nature of life.
It's like if we are hiking on a mountain and stop at specific points
to look at the beautiful view. There are no "wrong" spots that we can
stop at, stand in, and take in the magnificence of nature, but by
being open to all possible spots we can stand in, we can see the
view from different vantage points we haven't seen from before.

Instead of looking for right or wrong, good or bad in the world,
look for truth. Instead of trying to prove we are right and they are
wrong, or how they're better and we're worse, look for the truth in
what's in front of you. I would only caution this by saying that many
people believe what they think is the truth. For the most part, without
this deeper understanding of life, most of what we think is not truth,
even though it may seem like it.
True truth is not subjective. If it is "true" for one person, but not for
another, then it is not universal truth. Look for what is universally true
for every single conscious human being on the planet, no matter who
they are, where they're from, and what their background is. That is
the true truth and that is where you'll find everything you've been
searching for. Remember that the only place you can find this is
deep within your being, so don't try to go looking for it outside of you.
If you're confronted with something that may stir up negative
emotions, go within yourself to find the source of universal truth deep
within your soul. If you try to look for the answers outside or try to dig
into external reasons for the root of why you feel this way, you will be
looking for the rest of eternity and will never find it.
Negative emotions are an indication of misunderstanding. When
we are gripped by negative emotions, it means that we believe what
we are thinking. It is in this moment that we simply forgot where our
experience comes from and that our thinking is the cause of our
negative emotions.
All you have to do is remember that thinking is the root cause of
how we’re feeling. Once this is brought into your awareness, don’t
fight the thinking. Just become aware that it is your thinking that’s
causing the ill feelings, welcome it with love, and it will slowly
dissipate before your eyes. Not too long after, you’ll return to your
natural state of peace, love, and joy.

CHAPTER 13
HOW DO YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO WITHOUT
THINKING?
“The intuitive mind is a sacred gift, and the rational mind is a faithful
servant. We have created a society that honors the servant and has
forgotten the gift.” — Albert Einstein
In the previous chapter, we discussed how there is no right or wrong
in this world. This chapter will build on the last to deepen our
understanding and illuminate how to know what to do without
thinking.
Although there are no right or wrong decisions we can make, just
like how there are no wrong keys on a piano, there are decisions or
"keys" that are more pleasant than others depending on the context.
Knowing that there is no right or wrong relieves us from quite a bit a
pressure to "choose the right one".
When we make decisions, we want to rely on non-thinking. When
we try to think, analyze, create pros and cons lists, and ask everyone
(including our pets) for advice, it causes anxiety and frustration until
we make the decision. Most of the time, we already know deep down
what to do in any specific situation. This is often referred to as your
gut feeling, intuition, or inner wisdom. What we do is try to confirm
our intuition with the external world and this is where most of the
negative emotions begin to surface, wreaking havoc on our mental
state because of everyone’s opinions.
Only you can know what you want to do. No one else can tell you
this. There will be mentors and coaches that can guide you to help
you along the way, but the best ones will tell you to listen to your
intuition and look within yourself for the answer (the truth is only ever
within you). This is why many of us experience the phenomenon of
regret when we knew deep down what we should have done based
on our gut feeling, but we ignored it and listened to someone else's
advice or opinion.

Your intuition will always lead you to where you need to go and
what you should do at any moment in time. It's like a real-time inner
GPS that will tell you when to take a detour and which path you
should take if there is a blockage in the road to your destination. It's
guaranteed that our inner GPS will guide us to exactly where we
want to go, but what’s not guaranteed is how or which path it will put
us on to take us there. There are infinite circumstances that can
happen on the journey to the destination, but you can rest assured
your GPS will get you there.
Important Note:
Society will almost never confirm our intuition until it's mainstream
already. For this reason, if you try to look outside for confirmation on
what you know to be true for you, you'll almost always get backlash
and differing opinions on what next steps you should take. Avoid
looking externally for answers. Follow your intuition, your gut feeling,
your inner wisdom, and the Universe/God. When you do this, you will
begin to see miracles occurring in your life that you never could have
expected or even dreamed of. Those who have the faith and
courage to do this, will discover the true joy, peace, and love they
have been looking for while enjoying the miracle of life.
So how do we know what to do without thinking?
The truth is most of us know what to do, but we are just afraid to
do it. For instance, if we want to lose weight, most of us know exactly
what we need to do. The formula to losing weight isn’t rocket science
or written in hieroglyphics. Most of us know that all we need to do is
burn more calories than we consume, workout and eat healthy foods
and we’ll lose weight. For anything in life, you most likely already
know deep down what to do, but are afraid of doing it or don’t believe
that you are good enough to do it.
The first step is realizing that you already know what to do, you
just think you don’t because of fear or self-doubt. If you don’t have
any fear or self-doubt about the situation and still see that you don’t
know what to do, then the next step is to trust your inner wisdom
(Infinite Intelligence) that it will give you the answers you need. We

have the ability to access an infinite number of thoughts, so there’s
definitely no shortage of ideas on what you can do in any given
moment. The only thing that is stopping us from accessing this
abundance of knowledge is our own thinking.
Henry Ford once said, “Whether you think that you can or can’t,
you’re right.” If we walk around our lives thinking we can’t, then we
immediately block ourselves from the limitless possibilities of what
we can do in any given moment in time. But when we release the
brake in our mind and realize that it’s just our thinking holding us
back, we automatically return to our natural state of abundance and
unlimited possibilities and in that moment, we can receive any
answer we need on what to do.
In short, know that you already know and if you don’t know,
know that you can know what you need to know.
If you know that you can always know, then what you need to
know will always come to you. Trust in your own intuition and inner
wisdom. It has always and will always be there for you when you
need it as long as you trust that it will.

CHAPTER 14
HOW TO FOLLOW YOUR INTUITION
“Have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow
already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is
secondary.” — Steve Jobs
In a previous chapter, we talked about how we don’t need to think in
order to thrive in the world and that the way we do thrive is to
remove the thinking we have going on. The state of flow is a state of
pure oneness and a direct connection to everything around us.
Because there is no separation when we are in that state, we can
also say that it is a state where we are in direct connection and
alignment with God/Universe/Infinite Intelligence.
What thinking does is sever this connection we have with the
divine, causing us to feel stress, frustration, anger, resentment,
depression, and all of these negative emotions many of us feel on a
daily basis. This is why some religions describe Hell as the complete
separation from God.
From now on for simplicity’s sake, I’ll be using the term nonthinking instead of flow, but they really are synonymous when I use
them in this book. This state of non-thinking also means a direct
connection to Infinite Intelligence.
Many will attribute the state of non-thinking or flow with a
particular activity that we love to do and that’s the only time we can
be in flow. This is far from the truth. We can be in a state of nonthinking at any point in time. The only time we can really be in a state
of non-thinking is in the present moment. We can only see reality in
the present moment and when we are actively thinking, it means we
are either in the past or future (which don’t exist). Only in the present
moment can the truth be found. This is why all of the spiritual
masters and leaders always teach to meditate, pray, and to be in the
present moment. In the Bible, when Moses asks God her name, She
replies with “I am.” God didn’t say that She was or will be (because

they don’t exist), but simply with “I am.” God, truth, the Universe,
freedom, peace, joy, and love (these terms are all synonymous) can
only be found, and therefore experienced, in the present.
When you’re following your intuition, it means you are trusting
yourself and having faith that you always have the inner wisdom
necessary to help guide you through everything in life. This is a state
of non-thinking or flow.
Let’s explore how we can make this concept practical and
bring it into our everyday lives. What does following your
intuition and inner wisdom look like and how can we do it?
When you’re following your intuition, you’re completely tapped into
something greater than your personal self. You’re in a state of nonthinking (flow) and direct connection with God. In this state, you
always know what you need to do without thinking and are guided by
Infinite Intelligence. It almost seems like we’re not doing anything
when we’re in this zone because we lose our sense of personal self
and become one with life. When we’re in this state, miracles occur
such as business deals coming out of nowhere, people showing up
at the right place at the right time, money comes in exactly when we
need it, connections that we were looking for spontaneously fall upon
our laps, and life seems almost magical. Time seems to warp and
bend around us and it’s because there is no sense of it. We proceed
to then accomplish more within a few days than others do within a
month. Abundance, love, joy, peace, harmony, and gratitude are
inevitable and inseparable feelings that are experienced in this state.
Every single person has experienced instances where they have
felt like this before. Although many have experienced this
phenomenon, very few are able to maintain it for extended periods of
time. The main reason is because most relapse back into thinking
and believe that they have to “figure it out” themselves. It is when we
begin thinking that we lose this power of creating miracle-like events
and circumstances.
The truth is that we don’t have to have it all figured out, nor do we
even have to figure it all out. How can our limited minds possibly
understand and try to manipulate the entire world to our desires?

It is only when we think we know more than God that we run
into problems.
The great news is that we don’t have to know more than Her nor
do we have to even think. All we have to do is trust in our own
intuition and have faith that our inner wisdom will show us the way
that is best for us. When you ask people who are the most abundant,
joyful, and successful how they made it, they will usually attribute
their success to some sort of higher power or luck. These people
have trusted in something greater than themselves and thus attribute
it to that instead of attributing their success to sheer willpower and
brute force.
There’s so much in life that is completely out of our control and we
can really only control a very small portion of it. This is not to say that
we give up because we can’t control our lives, it’s quite the opposite.
When we realize that we don’t have to control and try to force
everything to happen our way, we become free from suffering, pain,
and frustration and begin to fall into this state of non-thinking where
things just all happen for us instead of to us. We begin to see that
everything was perfectly placed in our lives to help us become the
exact person we are now and that if anything were changed, we
would not have what we do now. There are millions of small
circumstances and events that have to have been meticulously
orchestrated for us to be where we are now. To plan that would be
impossible and futile, yet here we are. This is the miracle of life.
To go back on a point we just made about us not having to control
things in our lives, there’s a caveat I want to highlight. It is true that
we cannot control everything that happens in our lives, but what we
can control is whether we think or not (which is the root cause of all
of our problems and negative emotions). We can decide to change
our experience of life whenever we want and how we feel at any
moment. This is how we can choose to be happy — by choosing to
let go of our thinking. Isn’t that what ultimately matters at the end of
the day? It’s not about what we have, but how we feel inside that is
the true measure of success, joy, and fulfillment.
The other point I wanted to bring up is that although we can’t
control a lot of things, what we can have a say in is what we want in

our lives, but not necessarily the how. For instance, we have the gift
of imagination (access to Infinite Intelligence), which means we can
come up with anything that we want in our lives. This is an amazing
blessing, but where things can go sour is when we think that we
need to figure out the how in order to make it happen. It is at this
point that most people give up or continue down the path of brute
force to try to bring it to life and suffer daily for it. This is why people
believe that we have to work hard and suffer for what we want in life.
That is simply not true. It is only true if we think we have to figure out
the “how” to get what we want in life. Our job is to come up with what
we want, not how to get it. The how is really up to the Universe. This
is the best-case scenario anyway because there are an infinite
number of ways to bring about what you want in life, so for our little
finite brains to figure it out would be futile, nonetheless.
We only suffer when we try to figure it all out, but we don’t have
to. This is when we want to rely on our intuition and inner wisdom to
help show us exactly what we need to do in real time to manifest
what we want. There’s no need to try to figure it all out in advance.
Our part is to hold in our minds what we want and get into a
state of non-thinking. This enables us to access our Infinite
Intelligence (God) so that the answers are revealed to us exactly
when we need it.
The path forward is only revealed when we begin walking. There’s
never going to be a time where the entire path is illuminated for us to
see beforehand. That would completely negate the need for faith and
that is why faith and trust is of utmost importance when manifesting
something.
We must have complete, unwavering faith that what we want to
create will come to us and we can only do this by fully trusting in the
Universe to orchestrate how it will happen. We can always get what
we desire in life, it just may not be on our timeline or in the way we
want it to manifest.
Our intuition and inner wisdom (God) actually speaks to us all of
the time. You know that small voice inside that always knows what
you should do? Maybe it’s to leave your job, forgive a person that

hurt you, ask someone out, or reconnect with someone. It’s that gut
feeling you get where you know what you need to do. Have you ever
regretted not doing something in a moment your gut told you to do
it? Have you ever had a gut feeling to do something, but you have no
logical reasoning as to why, but you did it anyway and amazing
things happened afterward? That is your intuition.
Our intuition does come to us in the form of thoughts, but
remember that there’s a stark difference between thoughts and
thinking, as we discussed in a previous chapter. Thoughts are divine
by nature and feel like they pop into our minds out of nowhere.
Thinking on the other hand is a manual, strenuous effort that we
create ourselves, which feels very heavy and typically has negative
emotions attached to it. When you have divine thoughts from Infinite
Intelligence, there’s a sense of knowingness to it. It contains the truth
and you just know deep down that it’s right. Your intuition will almost
never seem logical or rational, but that’s exactly what we want
because we don’t want it to be predictable. If it were predictable, it
wouldn’t be miraculous and it wouldn’t contain the infinite
possibilities of the Universe which are all spontaneous by nature.
Your intuition will almost always go against your logical, rational
mind, so be prepared for that. It will whisper to you that you should
talk to this random person in a coffee shop that leads to a beautiful
friendship or for you to call up a friend spontaneously where you find
out they really needed someone to be there for them during a difficult
time. It will tell you to step into and live in your divine gift and put
yourself out there to share the truth of what you know. It will softly
beckon you to pursue what you truly want in life versus following
what everyone else says that you should want. These are a few
examples of the infinite numbers of ways it will speak to you and
when you follow it, it will always create miracles and abundance
beyond your wildest imaginations.
So why don’t more people listen to their intuition if it always
knows what to do and creates abundance whenever it is
followed? Fear.

Listening to our intuition can be scary or extremely daunting. This
is because our intuition lives in the space of the unknown. In order
words, our intuition is spiritual and operates in the field of infinite
possibilities, which by nature is the field of unknown. We as humans
always fear the unknown because we can’t predict what might
happen. It is only when we step into the unknown that we can begin
to experience the limitless possibilities that life can bring to us. This
is why magical things and miracles happen when we trust our
intuition. We are literally stepping into the zone of pure possibility. It
is for this reason that we only need to know the “what” of what we
want to manifest, but not the “how”.
The only way you can enter this space of miracles is through nonthinking. If we think, we immediately get ejected out of the space and
enter a state of anxiety, worry and suffering. Our thinking will try to
predict what might happen based on the past. This is why most
people get more of the same of what they have always gotten. They
try to use their limited personal mind to create something they have
never experienced before, innocently not realizing that they must
step into the unknown by entering the state of non-thinking and
listening to their intuition. We can only ever create something we
have never experienced in the realm of infinite possibilities, but the
only way to make that happen is to go where we haven’t gone
before, which is the unknown.
In summary, your intuition always knows what you need to do in
the present moment, but the only way to access it is by getting into a
state of non-thinking. Your personal mind will freak out because
you’re stepping into the space of infinite possibilities (the unknown),
but if you remember that it is just thinking that is making you feel
fear, the fearful thinking will fall away and the courage you need to
act on your intuition will naturally surface. It is in this moment that
you must have faith in your inner wisdom (God) to guide you through
life even when you don’t know what will happen next — but that’s the
adventure and joy in it. The unknown is also the only way to manifest
what you want in life if you don’t already have it. You have to do what
you haven’t done in order to get what you don’t have. When you’re

operating from intuition, it’s not like you’re going to feel fear all of the
time. The fear is only present as long as your thinking is revolving
around fear. Once you acknowledge the fear and understand that it’s
only your thinking that’s causing those feelings, the illusion will fall
apart, and you’ll fall back into peace, joy, and pure love. This is the
space you want to stay in, which will allow you to create the positive
feelings that are the prerequisite to manifesting all you could possibly
imagine for yourself.

CHAPTER 15
CREATING SPACE FOR MIRACLES
“Today I make space for miracles. I recognize that it's not how big a
miracle is that's important but how much room I create for it.” — Kyle
Gray
The Story of the Zen Master and a Scholar - Empty Your Cup
Once upon a time, there was a wise Zen master. People traveled
from far away to seek his help. In return, he would teach them and
show them the way to enlightenment. On this particular day, a
scholar came to visit the master for advice. “I have come to ask you
to teach me about Zen,” the scholar said.
Soon, it became obvious that the scholar was full of his own
opinions and knowledge. He interrupted the master repeatedly with
his own stories and failed to listen to what the master had to say.
The master calmly suggested that they should have tea.
So the master gently poured his guest a cup. The cup was filled,
yet he kept pouring until the cup overflowed onto the table, onto the
floor, and finally onto the scholar’s robes. The scholar cried, “Stop!
The cup is full already. Can’t you see?” “Exactly,” the Zen master
replied with a smile. “You are like this cup — so full of ideas that
nothing more will fit in. Come back to me with an empty cup.”
It is ironic how much could be written about nothing. That’s what
space is: nothing. When we study the Universe and quantum
physics, we realize that everything comes from nothing. Therefore,
the great spiritual masters call this The Great Nothingness. For there
to be creation, there must first be space. The same is true for our
own minds. If you want something new to be created, such as new
thoughts, then you must first create space so that you can receive
new ideas that can change your life. Just like the teacup, if your mind

is completely full of old thinking, it is impossible to have any new
thoughts come into your mind to create the change you seek.
The way we can create this space is through non-thinking. As
soon as we stop our strenuous efforts to think, we immediately
create space where new thoughts and ideas can enter our minds.
Questions that challenge our current way of thinking are also a great
way to create space in our minds.
All the magic happens in this space of nothingness. For instance,
great athletes go through intense periods of training, but the best
athletes know that they need an equally intense period of rest
afterwards to stay in peak performance. It is during this rest period
that they recover, build muscle, and become stronger. This space
they create for themselves through rest is where everything they
wanted from the workout manifests.
When Thomas Edison was confronted with a particularly
challenging problem, he would sleep in his chair while holding a steel
ball in each of his hands. Eventually he would slip into a deep
enough stage of sleep where the ball would drop, wake him up and a
solution to his problem would pop into his mind. Everything comes
from nothing, and Edison understood this concept of creating space
for new thoughts to enter his mind instead of attempting to effort his
way into solving problems with his old way of thinking. He knew that
old thinking was not going to give him the solution to his challenges.
“We can't solve problems by using the same level of
consciousness we were at when we created them.” — Albert
Einstein
Einstein had different quirky, enigmatic behaviors just like Edison,
but a similar understanding of creating space. When Einstein was
stuck on a difficult problem, he would stop working on it and play the
violin. As he was playing, the answer would come to him out of
seemingly nowhere and then he’d have the solution to his problem.
Einstein had created space within his mind through non-thinking to
be able to receive divine downloads from the Universe.
We don’t have to try to figure everything out. Even the people we
deem as geniuses didn’t strain and effort their way into making the

greatest discoveries in the world, so what makes us think that we
have to? We are no different than them and are all connected to the
same Source. With the correct understanding, we can also receive
insights to any challenge we’re facing. We’re only ever one thought,
one insight, and one idea away from living a completely different
experience of life.
Here’s the process for receiving divine downloads when you’re
confronted with a challenge:
1. Become aware that your thinking is the root cause of all
negative emotions.
2. Create space by surrendering any manual thinking from
the personal mind and have complete faith that your inner
wisdom (God/Universe/Infinite Intelligence) will give you
the answer. Also surrender the how and when the answer
will come to you.
3. Become aware of any feelings that arise as you surrender
and magnify those feelings of love, peace, and joy. Meet
what you’re facing with love and the answer will come to
you.
If it seems almost too simple, that’s a good thing. The truth is
always simple. Although it may be simple, it’s not always easy and
even the greatest spiritual masters struggle at times. What’s
important is not when we get caught in our thinking (because it’s
inevitable), but what we do when we catch ourselves thinking again.
As long as you continually remember that we can only ever feel what
we’re thinking and that thinking is the root cause of all of our
suffering, then you’re free.

CHAPTER 16
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU BEGIN LIVING IN
NON-THINKING (POTENTIAL OBSTACLES)
“Do not let the behavior of others destroy your inner peace.” — Dalai
Lama
As you go along your journey of non-thinking, you’ll inevitably hit
some roadblocks along the way, so I’d like to bring up some of those
potential issues before you encounter them so that it is a little bit
easier for you.
Once you begin living your life in non-thinking, you’ll be having the
time of your life not having very many worries, stress, or problems in
your life. Many of them will just vanish before your eyes because if
you don’t see things as problems anymore, they literally stop being a
problem for you. What you’ll notice is that you haven’t felt this type of
peace and serenity in your life before and thus it will feel unfamiliar.
We as humans biologically don’t like what’s unfamiliar because it
means uncertainty. What’s ironic is that right about this time is when
most people begin thinking that something is wrong because they
feel so happy and peaceful the majority of the day. Many feel like
they’re not as productive, have lost their “edge”, or are just lazier.
This is far from the truth and it’s just your brain attempting to begin
thinking again to create the illusion of “safety” it wants to feel. The
truth is that we are most productive as humans when we are happy
and in a state of non-thinking. Time seems to fly when we are in a
state of pure joy. Tasks are easier, we perform better, people
gravitate to us, we attract way more abundance, and miracles begin
to occur out of nowhere. You just have to stay in the state of nonthinking long enough to experience these things and you’ll never
want to go back.
This is when faith becomes of the utmost importance — having
faith that things will be okay. Know that the Universe is working for
you, not against you. That everything happens for a reason and that

there are no failures in life, just lessons and opportunities for us to
grow. We must have faith in the unknown because that’s the only
place that contains the possibility for anything to be different than the
life we’re living right now. The unknown is where all possibilities
exist, including everything you could possibly ever want for your life.
Once you have the courage to make the leap into the unknown and
to not be afraid of it anymore, it’s impossible that your life won’t
change.
If you begin to feel like something’s wrong because you feel way
too peaceful and content, know that it’s only your mind trying to
make you think again. Your mind is the greatest salesman and
knows exactly what to say to get you to bring you back into its
vicious cycle of destructive thinking. It is in this moment that you
have the choice to have faith in the unknown and stay in the feeling
of happiness, peace, and love or to go back to the old patterns of
familiar pain and psychological suffering. We can either choose to be
free and happy in the unknown or to be confined and suffer in the
familiar.
If you do fall back into thinking, it is completely okay. Do not beat
yourself up about it. Don’t feel guilty that it happened. There’s no
need to punish yourself because that will only perpetuate the
thinking. Know that it is absolutely human to think. Once you catch
yourself and see that it is your thinking that’s causing your suffering,
that’s all you have to do in order to bring yourself to a state of peace,
happiness, and love again. The transition can happen painlessly and
effortlessly if you let it.

CHAPTER 17
NOW WHAT?
“There will come a time when you believe everything is finished, that
will be the beginning.” — Louis L’Amor
Although this is the end of the book, it is just the beginning of a new
life for you. You are only ever one thought away from peace, love,
and joy — which come from a state of non-thinking. Remember this
and keep it close to your heart because it is all the hope you need
when life gets inevitably tough. In the beginning, I promised you that
you will not be the same person as you were before you read this
book. If you began reading this book with the intention of having an
open and willing mind, then you have already received numerous
insights that have completely changed the way you look at life and
thus you are not the same person as you were before. Once you see
something new from an insight, you cannot unsee it. Once your
consciousness expands, it cannot contract again. We may forget
from time to time and cause ourselves to suffer when we begin
thinking again, but as soon as we remember that, we immediately
realize that we are the ever-expanding awareness of life itself and
find love, peace, and joy in the present.
If this seems like it is too simple and that it can’t be all there is,
that is just your mind causing you to think again. The truth is simple
and will always be. Anything that makes something complex and
intricate is only taking you further away from the truth. The truth is
not something you think, but something that you know and feel deep
in your soul. Listen to that still inner wisdom inside of you that knows
all of this. Let it guide you through your life. We are most fulfilled
when we listen to our soul. The world will continuously advertise to
us that we are not enough, that we are missing something or don’t
have everything we want. People will constantly bombard you with
their own opinions, judgements, and advice. Know that they are
innocently caught up in their thinking and thank them for caring, but

do not fall into the illusion that you need any of that. Everything you
could possibly ever want and need is already inside of you. You are
already all of the love, joy, peace, and fulfillment you have ever
wanted. It is only when we forget that fact and get caught up in our
thinking that we do not see it.
Continue to live in this state of pure peace and let go of any
thinking that may pop up in your mind. The longer you stay in this
space, the more miracles will show up in your life. Although you can
go and share this message with every person you meet, you won’t
even need to because they will notice something completely different
about you. You’ll be glowing, vibrant, and emanating pure love and
joy — and they will begin asking why and how. You are now
equipped with everything you need to know on how to stop your own
psychological suffering and embody a state of peace, love, and joy,
which is always available to you at all times. There’s a good chance
that you have already experienced the bliss of knowing and being
this.
There is absolutely no coincidence that you have picked up this
book and for us to be able to share our journey here together. I am
always amazed at all of the divine intercessions that have to had
happened for us to be here together right now. It is truly humbling
and an incredible blessing that you have allowed me to guide you
through this infinitely beautiful experience we call life.
Before we close this chapter, I do have one small favor to ask. If
you have found this book helpful or insightful, it would be an
incredible honor if you could take 60 seconds to leave a review
about this book on Amazon. I would truly love to hear about your
thoughts, insights, feedback, your personal journey and everything in
between. The few words you share there will help spread this
message to so many souls who are also looking for the same
answers you are and it will change someone's life (because who
doesn't read Amazon reviews before they buy something, right?).
For anyone that is interested in connecting with me even further, I
would love to hear from you at hello@josephnguyen.org about
anything and everything. It brings me such a deep feeling of joy to

hear other people's stories, so I do keep my inbox open for those
who would like to share. I look forward to hearing from you soon.
With Love & Light,
Joseph
P.S. In the next few pages, there will be a summary and guides to
help you implement much of what is mentioned in this book. If you
feel inspired to get additional help with applying these principles to
change your life or business, I’d love to invite you to visit my website
(www.josephnguyen.org) to explore possibilities of how we can work
together.

SUMMARY OF NON-THINKING
Thinking is the root cause of all suffering.
There is no other answer to why we feel negative emotions
other than that it is from our own thinking. Everything can
be traced back to our thinking, which makes problem
solving very simple. Once we realize that our thinking is
causing how we feel, we can let go of it and we return to
our natural state of peace, love, and joy. When we let go of
our thinking, it creates space for us to be able to allow all
positive emotions we want to feel to surface from within us.
We don’t live in reality, we live in a PERCEPTION of
reality, which is created by our own thinking.
Thinking is NOT an effect of our experiences, but the
CAUSE of it.
The thoughts in our minds are not facts.
Our thinking only has control over us if we believe it. Let go
of the belief in the thought to let go of the suffering.
Our feelings are direct feedback and an innate internal
guidance system to let us know whether we are lacking
understanding or have absolute clarity of truth. Feelings
are an invitation to deepen our understanding of the truth.
We are in flow when we are not thinking.
There is no separation between us and the Universe and
all of life when we are not thinking. It is only when we think
that we cut ourselves from Source and feel separate from
all things (the birth of the ego).
Thinking and thoughts are two different things. Thinking is
a verb and requires our manual effort, which causes
suffering. Thoughts are nouns, which do not come from us
and are divine downloads from the Universe.
We think because it is a biological response to survive.
Our minds think only because it is trying to keep us alive,
but it does not help us thrive. It is only concerned with our
safety and survival, but not our fulfillment. Thinking holds

us back from our Highest Selves by causing negative
feelings within us that prevent us from following our true
callings.
Our minds are limited to our personal experiences. If you
want to receive insights, creativity, and knowledge beyond
the capabilities of your current self, simply choose to listen
to Infinite Intelligence rather than your finite mind. This
infinite source of truth is available to all people at all times
if we allow it to be.
Universal Intelligence/Mind is the energy that is everything
in this universe. It is the source of where everything comes
from that is before form and we are made up of it. This
energy has a feeling, which is the feeling is love, peace,
joy, connection, and well-being. This is what we fall back
into when we let go of our thinking and it is our natural
state.
Since we are all always connected to the same source of
Infinite Intelligence, once we let go of our thinking, we
access new thoughts, ideas, and insights, even if we have
never experienced them before. The more we trust our
intuition and this Infinite Intelligence, the more we will
receive these insights that are always available to us.
Peace, love, joy, and all positive emotions are our default
states as humans. It is only when we begin thinking, then
we get taken out of that natural state. Once we let go of
our thinking, we fall back into our natural state of being and
experience all positive feelings effortlessly.
We are ever only one thought or one insight away from
expanding our consciousness and experiencing a deeper
feeling of love at all times, which comes from a state of
non-thinking.
Clarity is the nature of our minds and our default state. It is
only when we get caught up in our thinking that things do
not seem so. If we let go of our thinking, we return to our

“factory default” setting of peace, love, joy, and a quiet
mind.
There is nothing inherently wrong with anyone or anything
in the Universe, but our thinking will make us think so. You
do not have to be fixed because you are not broken. There
is only something for you to realize and remember, which
is that thinking is the root cause of our suffering. You do
not have to do anything about your thinking. All you have
to do is shift your understanding of thinking and you will fall
back into the truth of who you are, which is beyond your
thinking, your body, and everything you think you know. As
soon as you let go of your thinking, you become one with
Infinite Intelligence, allowing you to feel a never-ending
abundance of love, peace, and joy that is always available
to you because that is your true nature.
When you make space for Infinite Intelligence, it makes
space for you. The more you trust it, the more it trusts you.
There’s never an end to how much space you can make
for it. When you prioritize making space in your life and in
your mind for Infinite Intelligence to come through, your life
will change.

A Guide to Stop Thinking
Eliminate things that may make your more prone to
thinking (or things that cause you to be in a fight or flight
mode).
Eliminate as many things and actions in your life that do
not inspire you or excite you.
Create an environment that helps put you into a nonthinking state.
Create a morning activation ritual to help you start your
day in a peaceful, non-thinking state. Use this space to
receive insights from Infinite Intelligence to help you
navigate through life.
Create space in your day to be able to decompress, relax,
and return to a state of non-thinking. Write out things you
can do during your day that can help you achieve this. It
could be journaling, taking a walk, meditating, playing with
your pets, taking a nap, doing yoga, or anything relaxing.
Framework For How To Stop Thinking
1. Realize thinking is the root of all suffering (understand the
true nature of thinking).
Realize if you’re suffering, you’re thinking.
Realize the difference between thinking and thoughts.
Don’t try to find the root cause, thinking is the root
cause.
2. Create a space for persisting negative thinking
Allow them to be there and acknowledge them for what
they are.
Understand that you are the sacred space that holds
these feelings, but that you are not the feelings
themselves.
Don’t be afraid to be alone with your thinking and have
the courage to allow it to be in your consciousness.

Welcome it in and see that the thinking just wants to be
acknowledged.
Realize that negative thoughts only have power over
you if you believe in them.
Once you allow them to exist in your consciousness and
don’t resist the feelings, you can then look beyond the
feelings to see the truth behind it all.
Every feeling contains a seed of truth in it which will
help you deepen your awareness and allow you to
experience life more fully.
3. Once you acknowledge the thinking, allow it all to pass and
allow yourself to just be without attaching to anything.
Naturally positive emotions will arise, like peace, love, and
joy. Allow yourself to enjoy these emotions as they come
up. If the negative feeling still persists, then go back to
step one and repeat until you’ve been able to find some
peace.
Potential Obstacles
1. Not wanting to let go of thinking because you think that it is
what got you to where you are.
While this is true, you must realize that what got you
here, won’t get you there. If you want to break the
vicious cycle of suffering and the same self-destructive
patterns repeating in your life, you’ll have to do
something different. Insanity is doing the same thing
over and over again, but expecting a different result.
The real question is, do you want to be happy or not? If
you understand that thinking is the root cause of all of
your suffering and do not want to be unhappy any
longer, then you will be able to make the leap of faith
into non-thinking.
2. Not enough faith
In order for there to even be a possibility that there
could be a life filled with joy, peace, and love every

single day, you must first believe that it is possible. One
must also believe that they are part of something much
bigger that is the life force that has been taking care of
them this whole time (the Universe/God). Having faith in
something much bigger than we are without being able
to fully comprehend it with our finite minds is the only
way we can surrender our manual efforts and
experience total peace in our lives versus worrying
about everything.
3. Fear
Fear is a completely normal emotion when it comes to
trusting in the Universe, which is also the unknown.
Fear is an indication that something is very important to
us, so this is a great sign. Everything we could ever
want is on the other side of fear and deep down you
know this is the truth. The test we must pass in order to
obtain all we desire is fear itself. The way out is through
and going deep within yourself to see and know that you
will be okay no matter what. That this fear cannot and
will not kill you, but if you do not confront it, it will take
the life of all your dreams instead. Thinking is the root
cause of fear. If you don’t think, there is no fear. Follow
the framework for how to stop thinking to overcome the
fear and experience what life can be like without limits.

How You Will Know If You’re In A State Of Non-Thinking
If you’re not thinking, you will experience complete peace, love, joy,
passion, excitement, inspiration, bliss, and any positive emotion your
mind can conceive. You’ll feel like you’re in flow. You’ll lose sense of
time, space, and even yourself. You’ll feel “one” with life. This is how
you know you are not thinking.
Reflection Prompts
On a scale of 1-10, how much did you think today? (1 being low, 10
being high)
What percentage of your day was spent in fight or flight mode? What
percentage was spent in a relaxed, calm state?

A Guide To Creating A Non-Thinking Environment
Your environment will either induce and support the state of nonthinking or it can make you more prone to thinking.
Although we create our reality from the inside-out, many times we
are still affected by our environment. Since we are spiritual beings
living in a physical world, we cannot completely detach from this 3D
world just yet, so it is important to create an environment that is
conducive to non-thinking. In order to be productive, the best way to
do it is to eliminate distractions instead of trying to do more.
Similarly, if we eliminate many of the things that we know that can
trigger us to relapse back into thinking, then we will be able to stay in
a peaceful state of non-thinking much easier. Remember that
changing your environment and not yourself will not work long term.
A delicate blend of both will be what you need to create a beautiful
life you love to live.

Framework For Removing Thinking Triggers
1. Perform an audit to see what things can make you more
susceptible to thinking and make a list.
A. Write down everything that comes to mind. What can
help is to tap into your intuition and feel energetically in
your body if this specific thing in your environment will
help or hurt you. If you are in a calm, relaxed state, the
answer will be obvious.
B. If you’re having trouble with coming up with things, try to
remember what things tend to put you into a fight or
flight mode, make you anxious or overthink. Anything
that puts you into a survival state will not help you
maintain a state of non-thinking.
C. If it is still difficult to think of things, you can keep a
journal as you go about your week and write down
anything that seems to put you into a fight or flight
mode. You’ll have a nice list by the end of the week.
2. Organize all of the things you wrote down into categories
A. Here are some examples of categories
I. Physical Health
a. What things that when you put into your body can
make you more prone to experience a fight or
flight response (anxiety, stress, overthinking)?
Foods, stimulants, drinks, etc.
II. Physical Environment
b. What things in your physical environment can
make you more prone to experience a fight or
flight response (anxiety, stress, overthinking)?
III. Digital Environment
c. What things on your phone, computer, or TV can
make you more prone to experience a fight or
flight response (anxiety, stress, overthinking)?
IV. Digital Consumption

d. What media/content when you consume can
make you more prone to experience a fight or
flight response (anxiety, stress, overthinking)?
3. After you categorize everything, reorganize your list, and
begin ranking the items from things that affect you most to
the least.
4. Choose the top items from each list and create an action
item on what you plan to do in order to remove it from your
environment. Choose only what would be manageable and
possible for you to remove without making you prone to
even more stress (this would defeat the purpose of the
exercise). Start small and after you’ve become acquainted
with the changes and see the impact, you can begin
eliminating other things.

Framework For Creating A Non-Thinking Environment
Write down all of the things that help you get into a relaxed,
peaceful, non-thinking state. These can be things like exercise,
meditation, having a certain genre of music on, location, etc.
Organize the items on your list into categories.
1. Examples Of Categories
I. Physical Health
a. What things that you put into your body help you to
feel healthy, sustainably energized, and peaceful?
II. Physical Environment
a. What things in your physical environment help you
feel aligned with your divine self?
III. Digital Environment
a. What things on your phone, computer, or TV help
you to feel aligned with your divine self?
IV. Digital Consumption
a. What media/content you consume helps you to feel
aligned with your highest self?
2. Rank the items in each category from most impactful to
least impactful to helping you get into and remain in a nonthinking state.
3. Choose the top items from each list and create an action
item on how you will incorporate it into your life. Try not to
do too much at once because it can be overwhelming. Do
what is manageable for you for now and you can add on
more later after you’ve become acquainted with it.
4. Create an activation ritual or morning routine that helps
you get into a state of non-thinking and helps you align
with your highest self. Plan out what the ideal morning
routine looks like that you can do now. Start small and
don’t overwhelm yourself. Ensure that there is time for you
to create space (like meditation, yoga, or any similar
spiritual practice to help you tune into Infinite Intelligence).

5. How you start your day will create momentum for how your
day will go. If you start your day off by checking your
phone, emails and what you have to do, you’re starting
your day in a stressful, fight or flight mode of thinking,
which will carry on for the rest of the day.
6. If you begin your day in a peaceful state and perform a
routine that gets you into a state of non-thinking, you will
carry that momentum throughout your day and it will be
much harder to get caught up in external things that could
make you relapse back into thinking and stress. This is
why all the greatest spiritual masters have morning rituals
or routines of some kind.

Framework For Implementing Non-Thinking Into Your Work
1. Create a list of things you do in your work that drain you of
energy — things that you don’t like doing or just feel
overall heavy in your work.
2. Create a list of things you do in your work that gives you
energy — things that make you feel inspired, energetic,
alive, and light.
3. Go back through your whole list and give a rating for each
activity that you do on a scale from 1-10 with 1 being
extremely energy draining and 10 making you feel the
most alive and inspired when you do it.
4. Each week, eliminate 1-3 things from your energy draining
list and do more of the activities that are a 9 and 10 on
your list.
5. The goal is to get to a point where you’re spending 80% of
your work time doing things that are a 9 and 10 on your
list.

A Guide To Overcoming Destructive Habits/Behaviors
As you create more space and begin not thinking as much, you’ll
quickly discover that you will become aware of a lot of negative,
destructive habits you may have that keep making you more prone
to suffering. This is completely okay. Do not beat yourself up about it
because it will only make things worse. Here is a more detailed
guide below that will help you break any destructive habits:
1. Become aware of what behavior you want to change and
confirm that it is something you genuinely want to alter.
Understand that if you want to change and stop the vicious
cycle of suffering, you’re going to have to change and let
go of the beliefs you’re holding onto that are creating the
suffering. If you don’t want to change it, there’s no point in
continuing forward, but if you do want to change, then let’s
begin the process of letting go.
2. Write down in exact, meticulous detail what happens with
this behavior (how many times it happens, when it
happens, etc.) Don’t spare any details.
3. What are you feeling in the moment right before you begin
the behavior? What’s the feeling that triggers the
behavior? Be honest with yourself.
4. What specific thinking patterns are going on? What are
you saying to yourself in the moment when this
happens? Describe it in exact detail.
5. What beliefs do you have around this habit? What
conclusions have you made which compel you to feel like
you HAVE to perform this behavior/action?
6. How do you feel when you believe that thinking?
7. What do you believe will happen if you don’t perform the
behavior? In other words, what consequences do you
believe will happen if you don’t perform the action?
8. Is it ABSOLUTELY 100% true that it will happen if you
don’t perform the behavior?

9. Can you see how destructive this thinking is and how
much it causes you to suffer?
10. Are you willing to let this thinking and behavior go now?
11. Consult your inner wisdom and highest self. What is it
trying to tell you? What is it trying to help you learn? How
is it telling you to restore balance into your life? How is it
telling you to grow right now? Create space and wait for an
insight from Infinite Intelligence as to why you actually
want to change.
12. When you receive the insight, allow yourself to fully feel
the freedom, peace, and joy. Feel the weight lifted off your
shoulders. You’ll know you did it right if you physically and
energetically feel lighter and if you don’t see the
action/habit in the same way anymore. Fully immerse
yourself in the feeling of deep gratitude and just allow
yourself to be.
13. Write down any insight you’ve had and journal your
experience you just had so you can have a documentation
of these miracles in your life.
What To Do If The Feeling Comes Back Up Again
Follow this guide again until you have an insight or breakthrough that
completely changes the way you look at life.

